welcome to our MIDI recording and
virtual instruments tutorial for this
demonstration we will be using an emu
MIDI interface connected to the iPad by
a camera connection kit the camera
connection kit provides us with a
standard USB interface to which we can
connect any iOS compatible MIDI adapter
the interface will typically provide a
MIDI in and a MIDI out which can be
connected to your MIDI compatible
keyboard in order for me to accept MIDI
input from an external keyboard you need
to enable MIDI from the MIDI setup
dialog which is found in the options
menu for this demonstration we will
create a new project and outline the
recording procedure when a new project
is created all tracks will automatically
default to mono audio if you wish to
record MIDI data you will need to change
the track type accordingly to do this
simply double tap the arm button on a
track to expand the controller Lane
select track type then pick MIDI from
the pop-up menu in order to sync more
than one track it's advisable to enable
the metronome during recording from the
metronome options dialog you can
configure the tempo and the number of
bars to count you in
you should now be ready to make your
first MIDI recording press record
followed by the play button to begin the
recording process you can now repeat
this process for as many tracks as you
wish to record you will notice in the
previous clip we gave your glimpse of
the MIDI editor this message will appear
if you click the video editor button but
haven't purchased the in app you can
purchase the MIDI editor using the
online shop on the help menu this is an
optional in-app purchase which is not
required to record MIDI but allows the
flexibility of editing your MIDI
recordings don't panic there are more
than 4 in apps just scroll through the
list
the MIDI editor adds a great deal of
flexibility to the recording process one
advantage is the ability to scrub notes
this helps you identify incorrect notes
or timings another advantage is the
ability to add delete and edit
individual notes velocities and
controllers the editor has full
multi-level undo and the ability to step
record step recording is useful for
answering multiple notes of fixed
duration such as arpeggios which are
incredibly difficult to play in real
time simply enable step record position
the play cursor and play the required
notes on your external keyboard
for those not wanting to be tied to an
external keyboard you can use our
virtual instruments in app to create a
truly portable music creation
environment
a virtual instrument pack includes
assorted drum kits synthesizer and
sampler instruments capable of producing
a large range of sound this is an
example of an electric drum kit each pad
can be individually edited as well as
being able to add EQ bit crunching and
effects virtual keyboard is provided for
recording sequences using the sampler
and synthesizer virtual instruments here
is an example of a synthesizer
instrument
again these instruments are fully
editable allow we need to edit and
create your own patches
additional instrument patches are
available in the downloadable sound
libraries found in the help menu
additional instrument I breads will
become available from time to time so
don't forget to check it out
occasionally and see what's new please
check out the other meaty tutorials
thanks for watching